# Thursday, Sep 24, Notes

## Recap of our first meeting!

### FIRST MEETING
The purpose of the first meeting will be to ensure that everybody has python installed correctly and an account on Github. If you already have both, you’re still very welcome to come and help others. We want to avoid technical issues later.

## Points discussed during the meeting
0. Cookies!
Done.
1. Anyone not on the SESEALL mailing list?
None at the moment - if YOU are, mail Karen and let her know.
2. Introduction of the GitHub platform by Boom: 
  - our GitHub group page (https://gitter.im/sese-python-users)
  - the Gitter chat (download stand-alone app here: https://gitter.im/apps)
  - 'issues' function on our GitHub page
  - terminal commands
  - we went through creating a new tracked folder ('test') and committing changes to 'test'
3. Installing Python: 
Everybody had python, except one with Windows, who will start a new issue in addition to the already existing 'Python on Windows' issue
For the rest: Check whether your version is the one that you want (the most recent being 3.5.0, and most packages having been updated for Python v3.x)
4. Survey of Interest: What would YOU be interested in learning more about?
  - Boom created an Issue for this, and we started filling out. Later we will choose a topic for the next meeting.
5. Other: Be aware that the format of these meetings will NOT be classroom teaching. We want everybody to feel free to ask questions and work together in smaller groups during the meetings. Or just participate remotely via the git repository.

## Next meeting!!
In 2 weeks, probably same time. Homework for next time:
  - Try committing something to 'test' if you are not sure how git works!
  - Keep adding requests for stuff that you want to learn or get better at in Python
  - Install Gitter, if you want to be able to instantly chat with other Python-users.

