# Tuesday, Apr 18 2017, Notes

## Recap of our 5th meeting this semester!
First of all: [Local and fresh buns from Happy Buns AZ](https://www.facebook.com/HappyBunsAZ/)!

This meeting was focused on how to fit a model to your data.

Most of the fitting functions in the python packages use [least-square regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Least_squares).
Tilvi, Lucia, Brent and Karen all demonstrated differnet ways that you might want to fit your data in python. 
The code from their presentations can be found [here](https://github.com/prickly-pythons/prickly-pythons/tree/master/code_from_meetings/fitting).

1. Linear regression with the scipy module</br>
Karen gave a quick example of how to fit a line with the scipy.stats.lingress() function, and the code is saved in the jupyter notebook LinearRegressionExample.ipynb.

2. Fitting to a polynomial with the numpy module</br>
Lucia showed how to fit a polynomial, optionally keeping the slope fixed, using the numpy.polyfit() function, and the code is saved in PolyfitExample.py.

3. Fitting to a custom made expression with the scipy module<br>
Brent demonstrated how to fit a gaussian to a histogram of pixel flux values and extract important information like maximum position, using the scipy.optimize.curve_fit() function. 
His code also extracts images from an online database of Hubble Space Telescope observations! 
The code can be found in the jupyter notebook CurveFitExample.ipynb.

4. Fitting a line taking into account ERRORS on data points<br>
Finally, Tilvi showed how to take into account errorbars when fitting a line to your data using scipy.optimize.curve_fit(). 
This is extremely important for people using data points that have different errorbars and should be weigthed accordingly. 
His code is saved in LinearFitErr.py.

