# Tuesday, Feb 6 2018

## Recap of our fourth meeting this semester!
0. Coffee and coconut buns from [Happy Buns](http://goodfoodfinderaz.com/find-good-food/happy-buns-asian-bakery/).
1. Karen reminded Joe to remind everyone of the [homepage](http://prickly-pythons.github.io) where you can find topics for future meetings and links to the codes presented.
2. Joe talked about character encodings and number representations before going over how data can be read in using numpy's loadtext() and genfromtext() functions.
3. Karen introduced Pandas and showed how it could be used to read data into a dataframe and then plot it - with nicely positioned colorbars! She also mentioned pickling, a way of converting almost any objects into a stream of 0's and 1's, and the memory efficiencies of using different pickling protocols. Karen also went over the "fits" module from astropy which is able to load data files from simulation programs such as LIME.
4. Sean gave a presentation on how to use Pandas to read in multiple Excel files with some columns that are common throughout the files and merge these desparate spreadsheets with realtive ease. The code can be found [here](https://github.com/SeanBryan/MovieLensPandasDemo). The data are ratings of movies by various users. The movies were all very old, perhaps an updated version of the survey is needed.
5. We also touched on pandas versus numpy for reading/writing data. It probably ultimately depends on the data that you're dealing with. But Pandas is good in the sense that it can do a lot with minimal amounts of code. The downside to this compactification is that one needs to be comfortable with what goes on under the hood - which comes about from experience and reading the documentation lot.
