# Tuesday, Mar 20 2018

## Recap of our seventh meeting this semester! 
### Topic: Need-for-speed
0. Coconut buns from [Happy Buns](http://goodfoodfinderaz.com/find-good-food/happy-buns-asian-bakery/), chocolates, lollies and delicious coffee!
1. Joe showed how the `timeit` module can be used to time Python codes, and then gave a brief introduction to quantifying the run-time complexities of algorithms using the Big-O notation. 
An example of where different algorithms makes a difference in the time it takes to execute a particular task is given in the form of an anagram checking routine. Three algorithms were presented. The first algorithm is O(n^2) and the second is of O(n) (see [this notebook](https://github.com/prickly-pythons/prickly-pythons/blob/master/code_from_meetings/speed/Timing.ipynb)). The key to this speed increase is the separation of the problem into smaller independent bits which reduces the overall computational time at the cost of an increase in memory - an example of a Time-Memory tradeoff. The third algorithm is even faster - which was due to the use of in-built Python functions which persumably have been highly optimised and also written in C.
The concept of hashing is then introduced which is an extremely important and interesting idea because hash tables can be used acheive O(1) performance on average, and is what Python dictionaries are based on.
2. Derek showed an example of sorting data from a real x-ray diffraction experiment. 
Useful functions demonstrated include:


- `np.argsort` 
Returns the indices of the input array after sorting.

- `bisect.bisect_left` and `bisect.bisect_right`
Locates the insertion point for a given input in a given array via a binary search such that the sorted order of that array is maintained. If the input is equal to an element already present in the array, left/right puts the input left/right of that element.

- `np.searchsorted`
Returns the indicies required to insert the elements of array 1 into array 2 in the correct places to preserve the order of array 2.




Please visit our [homepage](http://prickly-pythons.github.io) where you can find topics for future meetings and links to the codes presented.
