# Monday, Apr 24 2018

## Recap of our 11th meeting this semester! 
### Topic: Researchers' Medely

0. Coconut buns from [Happy Buns](http://goodfoodfinderaz.com/find-good-food/happy-buns-asian-bakery/), chocolates, lollies and coffee!

1. Bill Wolf gave a good talk about the Python modules that he has written which reads in and analyses data from MESA - Modules for Experiments in Stellar Astrophysics.

    - He showed the integration of self-created classes with numpy arrays and dictionaries.
    - Recommends against making a slideshow presentation using Jupyter notebook - becauses a lot of code to just line up for example two figures.
    - Docstrings are useful and important - spending 5 minutes writing documentation will save future-you and future-others using your code hours of time.
    - Sphinx documentation generator is great.

2. Rick Sarmento introduced the visualisation and analysis codes that he wrote.

    - 2D histograms.
    - np.histogram is better than the histogram function in matplotlib because the former has more flexibility.
    - pcolormesh to draw contours.
    - Axes may need to be fliped. Sean pointed out that this was due to historical reasons relating to implementation in Matlab and C.

3. Joe talked about optimisation and searching using iterative projection algorithms.

    - The Hungarian algorithm finds the permutation of N things with the smallest total cost given their NxN cost matrix. 
    - Sudoku puzzles can be posed in this way and solved using a combination of projection operations composed of steps like the Hungarian algorithm to search the multidimensional space.
    - The same idea can be applied to diffractive imaging of tiny things like protein molecules.
    - See this [notebook](https://github.com/prickly-pythons/prickly-pythons/blob/master/code_from_meetings/research/HSP.ipynb) for the details.

5. Karen showed that it is indeed possible to remember all the birthdays of the people that matter to you with her program.

    - Cool and customizable notifications can be obtained with Alerter: https://github.com/vjeantet/alerter
    - Notifications for Macs sometimes don't show up if you are connected to another screen.
    - Here is Karen's [birthday reminder program](https://github.com/prickly-pythons/prickly-pythons/tree/master/code_from_meetings/birthday_reminder).




Please visit our [homepage](http://prickly-pythons.github.io) where you can find topics for future meetings and links to the codes presented.
