# Friday, Oct 5 2018

## Recap of meeting 5 this semester!
1. The seven bridges of Königsberg problem and its solution by Euler. See [this article](https://plus.maths.org/content/bridges-k-nigsberg) for a good introduction.
2. The [networkx](https://networkx.github.io/documentation/stable/index.html) package is a good library for dealing with graphy stuff in Python.
3. Dictionaries are a container consisting of key-value pairs. Use the key to get the value, for example:
```
my_dictionary = {"A": 3, "B": 1e-4, "C": 1/5, "D": 22.14}
```
The invokation `my_dictionary["A"]` will output the number 3.

4. The output from code snippets 1 and 2 below are equivalent.

**Code snippet 1:**
```
value_list = []
for key, value in my_dictionary.items():
    value_list.append(value)
value_list
```
**Code snippet 2:**
```
[value for key, value in my_dictionary.items()]
```
The condensed operation in Code snippet 2 is the so-called "list comprehension".

5. An insightful question was raised which was whether there is a relationship between the length of the edges that `networkx.draw()` produces and the properties of that graph.
It seems not. According to [this stackoverflow discussion](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48575325/do-the-edge-lengths-in-networkxs-draw-function-have-any-significance), `networkx.draw()` constructs plots of graphs based on a spring-like model (nodes positioned like they are connected by springs with spring constants of.. something..). So it's mainly for visualisation purposes I think.

6. Rey told us about the tree of life and how it needs to be re-thinked to incoporate loops and perhaps other structures to form a general graph in order to model ideas such as horizontal gene transfers and the exchange of genetic materials via viral mechanisms.


# More info:
The Jupyter notebook presented is [here](https://github.com/prickly-pythons/prickly-pythons/blob/master/code_from_meetings/signal_processing/Fourier%20Transforms.ipynb).
<br>
Good e-book: https://jackschaedler.github.io/circles-sines-signals/index.html

Next week: Graphs and networks!
