# Friday, Aug 31 2018

## Recap of meeting 1 this semester!
0. Cold coconut buns.
1. `try`, `except`, `raise`, `assert` - allows programs to behave nicely (e.g. output sensible messages) in face of errors. Sean mentioned that `raise` induces the particular error raised and makes the program halt on that error.
2. Unit testing - a bunch of functions that tests a target function against expected output.
3. [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) is a neat module that can execute all unit tests in one file. The basic steps are:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (1) Create a file (let's call it mymodule.py) with the function you want to test in it (say myfunc.py). 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (2) Create a file called test_myfunc.py and import the function using say `from mymodule import myfunc`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (3) Write test functions like

```
def test_firsttest():
  inputs = ... # Define inputs
  
  observed = myfunc(inputs)
  expected = ... # What the expected output of the myfunc should be
  
  assert observed == expected
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (4) Save the file and enter `pytest` (newer version of pytest) or `py.test` (older version of pytest) in the command line.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (5) Note that the name of the unit test file and the name of the unit test functions themselves all have to begin with "test_".

4. Continuous integration - will my code work on other platforms?
- Allows unit tests to be run on different operating systems (linux, osx, windows etc.) under different environments (Python 2, Python 3, etc.).
- Travis CI is one free provider of this service. Can sign up with your Git Hub account and it will sync with the repository that you want to test and runs the test automatically. 
- Specify all conditions in a file .travis.yml and put it in the same directory as the unit tests. For more information, see: https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/getting-started/

5. Sharing code - usually turns out better to share your code and make your code available to others than to not. 
6. Licences - two types: Permissive (MIT, BSD) and Copy-left (GPL)

- Permissive code only requires authors be attributed/cited.
- Copy-left code stipulates that if you use code that is copy-left then you must make your code copy-left as well.


# More info:
The Jupyter notebook presented is [here](https://github.com/prickly-pythons/prickly-pythons/blob/master/code_from_meetings/testing/Testing.ipynb).
<br>
Good tutorial for learning software testing: http://katyhuff.github.io/python-testing/
<br>
Oliver Beckstein's [slides](https://github.com/Becksteinlab/workshop_testing/blob/master/docs/miniworkshop_Beckstein_2018.pdf) on good software engineering practices.

Next week: reading in and doing stuff with data!

