# Monday, Oct 16 2017

## Recap of our fourth meeting this semester!
0. Coconut buns from [Happy Buns](http://goodfoodfinderaz.com/find-good-food/happy-buns-asian-bakery/), chocolates and coffee!
1. Karen reminded everyone of the homepage where you can find topics for future meetings and links to previous code presented.
2. Karen introduced numpy.loadtxt() and numpy.genfromtxt() as well as pandas dataframes for structuring data.
3. Duho (astronomy grad student) gave an example of using the ascii() object from the astropy module, with options to read in data from big galaxy surveys fast.
4. Lucia (astronomy grad student) showed us how she saves/loads large arrays of modeling results as dictionaries with the numpy.save()/numpy.load() functions.
5. We had discussion on which methods are faster than others, in particular which methods can use C language to read data faster than the python engine would.

Finally, we had a vote for future topics, with the following number of votes per topic:<br>
10 - object-oriented programming (how interested would people be in a data scientist explaining this?)<br>
8 - error handling<br>
12 - SQL, databases<br>
5 - making python work for raspberry pi (talking to instruments? going to the OS)<br>
12 - code optimization and need-for-speed (sub-processing)<br>
7 - clean coding<br>
6 - Physics with Python<br>
2 - History of Python<br>
3 - JupyterLab<br>
6 - math operations on matrices<br>
10 - making packages<br>
4 - unit testing<br>
6 - turning python into an executable<br>
10 - writing code in python that calls C and vice versa (Cython etc.).<br>
We will have a co-organizer meeting next week to decide on the order of topics for the remaining meetings this semester - if you would like to join, send me an email!

A doodle will be sent out sometime soon to reconsider the time for remaining meetings this semester.
